T Academy Git / GitHub / GitHub Pages Lectures
====================================================
- gitHub / GitLab
- b4) github didn't provide free private repositories -> MS announced free private repos for teams <= size of 3
##### mostly SW versions go from...
1. 0.0.1 [begin]
2. 1.0.0 [beta]
3. 1.0.1 [beta update]
4. 1.1.0 [curr version]
> [A] Major: a whole new version / ain't compatable with previous versions
> [B] Minor: Some new features / fixes
> [C] Patch: minor internal error fixes or something
>> [A].[B].[C] structured

##### Branch!
- To avoid issues on version namings and such...

##### Never touch .git folder!
- Contains very single snaptshots, settings etc...
##### .gitignore
- Name files/folders to avoid git tracing
##### README.md
1. Project descriptions (img or logo)
2. Installations
3. Sample codes / snippets
4. Environment settings
5. Contributions?
6. Log changes
7. Credits
8. Lisences
9. Contact
* Start simple!

## Git Commands 101
### git init
- echo '# github_prac' >> README.md   // make a file with 'msg'
- or, >touch README.md & go with vim
- or, >touch README.md & >code ./README.md to open VS Code if installed (goto Ctrl + p on VS Code and type >shell if it doesn't work)
- Fix, update and cat README.md!
### git add   [move to stage / ready to be commited]
### git status
### git diff
- diff btween current state and previous file
### git commit -m 'add README.md'
- with simple comments
### git log
- previous commit logs (sourcetree enables this feature by default)
### git config --global user.name="hankim"
- set username for each commit
### git config --global user.email=""
- set email for each commimt
### git remote add origin [url]
- connect to remote repo by the name 'origin' from local
### git push origin master
- Update master branch to remote(sync)
### git restore --staged [file name]
### HEAD
- points to the current version
### git checkout [7 digit hash key]
- jump to specific version
- to see all commit logs, type in
### git log --all
### git checkout master
- to switch to master branch
## Git Commands 102
### git remote add origin [url]
- and to check if things are done well,
### git remote -v
- and see if origin fetch/push urls are there
### git push -u origin master
- -u options enables
> git push/pull command through setting current branch as master branch, and automatically merge current branch with origin branch
Copy repositories into my puter
----------------------------------
## branches!
### git clone [url] [alias]
- DL from remote (origin/master to master)
### git branch [name]
- create a branch as [name] apart from master
### git merge [name]
- merge [name] branch to main branch
### git rebase master
- re-base the ref point as the latest version of master
### git branch -d [name]
- remove no longer needed branches
## Sourcetree!
### clone without logs
- set clone depth 1, 2 or etc
- you could see 7 digit hash codes of previoucommits, like tree or graph in DS.
